index.md, before:

---
layout: lesson
root: .
---

Wolfman and Dracula have been hired by Universal Missions (a space
services spinoff from Euphoric State University) to investigate if it
is possible to send their next planetary lander to Mars.  They want to
be able to work on the plans at the same time, but they have run into
problems doing this in the past.  If they take turns, each one will
spend a lot of time waiting for the other to finish, but if they work
on their own copies and email changes back and forth things will be
lost, overwritten, or duplicated.

A colleague suggests using [version control]({{ page.root }}/reference/#version-control) to
manage their work. Version control is better than mailing files back and forth:

*   Nothing that is committed to version control is ever lost, unless
    you work really, really hard at it. Since all old versions of
    files are saved, it's always possible to go back in time to see
    exactly who wrote what on a particular day, or what version of a
    program was used to generate a particular set of results.

*   As we have this record of who made what changes when, we know who to ask
    if we have questions later on, and, if needed, revert to a previous
    version, much like the "undo" feature in an editor.

*   When several people collaborate in the same project, it's possible to
    accidentally overlook or overwrite someone's changes. The version control
    system automatically notifies users whenever there's a conflict between one
    person's work and another's.

Teams are not the only ones to benefit from version control: lone
researchers can benefit immensely.  Keeping a record of what was
changed, when, and why is extremely useful for all researchers if they
ever need to come back to the project later on (e.g., a year later,
when memory has faded).

Version control is the lab notebook of the digital world: it's what
professionals use to keep track of what they've done and to
collaborate with other people.  Every large software development
project relies on it, and most programmers use it for their small jobs
as well.  And it isn't just for software: books,
papers, small data sets, and anything that changes over time or needs
to be shared can and should be stored in a version control system.

> ## Prerequisites
>
> In this lesson we use Git from the Unix Shell.
> Some previous experience with the shell is expected,
> *but isn't mandatory*.
{: .prereq}

Commit message:

Added link to original lessons and info about how these were mod-ed

index.md, after:

---
layout: lesson
root: .
---

This version of the git-novice lessons was modified from the original
lessons [found here](http://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/) 
in order to each how to customize a template gh-pages / jekyll
repository to make a personal webpage.

The story to go with learning git locally is as follows:

Wolfman and Dracula have been hired by Universal Missions (a space
services spinoff from Euphoric State University) to investigate if it
is possible to send their next planetary lander to Mars.  They want to
be able to work on the plans at the same time, but they have run into
problems doing this in the past.  If they take turns, each one will
spend a lot of time waiting for the other to finish, but if they work
on their own copies and email changes back and forth things will be
lost, overwritten, or duplicated.

A colleague suggests using [version control]({{ page.root }}/reference/#version-control) to
manage their work. Version control is better than mailing files back and forth:

*   Nothing that is committed to version control is ever lost, unless
    you work really, really hard at it. Since all old versions of
    files are saved, it's always possible to go back in time to see
    exactly who wrote what on a particular day, or what version of a
    program was used to generate a particular set of results.

*   As we have this record of who made what changes when, we know who to ask
    if we have questions later on, and, if needed, revert to a previous
    version, much like the "undo" feature in an editor.

*   When several people collaborate in the same project, it's possible to
    accidentally overlook or overwrite someone's changes. The version control
    system automatically notifies users whenever there's a conflict between one
    person's work and another's.

Teams are not the only ones to benefit from version control: lone
researchers can benefit immensely.  Keeping a record of what was
changed, when, and why is extremely useful for all researchers if they
ever need to come back to the project later on (e.g., a year later,
when memory has faded).

Version control is the lab notebook of the digital world: it's what
professionals use to keep track of what they've done and to
collaborate with other people.  Every large software development
project relies on it, and most programmers use it for their small jobs
as well.  And it isn't just for software: books,
papers, small data sets, and anything that changes over time or needs
to be shared can and should be stored in a version control system.

> ## Prerequisites
>
> In this lesson we use Git from the Unix Shell.
> Some previous experience with the shell is expected,
> *but isn't mandatory*.
{: .prereq}
